metricshub-doc/src/site/markdown/usecases/ping.md, before:

keywords: ping
description: How to ping resources with MetricsHub

# Pinging resources

## Overview

With **MetricsHub**, you can ping your resources through ICMP (Internet Control Message Protocol) to verify that they can be reached within an acceptable response time. To achieve this, you just need to configure in the `config/metricshub.yaml` file:
* the resources to be monitored 
* the ICMP Ping protocol for each of your resource.

In the example below, we ping 9 resources that belong to the  `baie9` resource group using the **ICMP protocol**. A timeout of 3 seconds is configured and the result (OK, KO status) is displayed in a Grafana Dashboard.

![MetricsHub - Pinging resources](../images/metricshub-ping-check-feature.png)

## Procedure

To configure the **Ping Check** feature: 

1. In the `config/metricshub.yaml` file, we created the `baie9` resource group. The site, which corresponds to the physical location, is `baie9` as well:

    ```yaml
    resourceGroups:

      baie9:

        attributes:
          site: baie9
    ```

2. We configured our resources as follows:

    ```yaml
        resources:
          host-service:
            attributes:
              host.names: [ tallinn, bacon, powerscale, purex-san, purem-san, xtremio, oracle-zfs-7320, pure-san, vm-users-01]
    ```

3. We configured the ICMP protocol as follows:

    ```yaml
            protocols:
              ping:
                timeout: 3  
    ```

We came up to this version of the `config/metricshub.yaml` configuration file:

   ```yaml
    resourceGroups:

      baie9:

        attributes:
          site: baie9

        resources:
          host-service:
            attributes:
              host.names: [ tallinn, bacon, powerscale, purex-san, purem-san, xtremio, oracle-zfs-7320, pure-san, vm-users-01]
            protocols:
              ping:
                timeout:  3  
  ```

Commit message:

Issue #289: Document the most common use cases
* Took Bertrand's comment into account
* Documented 2 new use cases: process-command-line.md, service-linux.md

metricshub-doc/src/site/markdown/usecases/ping.md, after:

keywords: ping
description: How to ping resources with MetricsHub

# Pinging resources

## Overview

With **MetricsHub**, you can ping your resources through ICMP (Internet Control Message Protocol) to verify that they can be reached within an acceptable response time. To achieve this, you only need to configure in the `config/metricshub.yaml` file:
* the resources to be monitored 
* the `ping` protocol for each of your resource.

Once the monitoring is in place, **MetricsHub** will push the following metrics for each resource (host):

* `metricshub.host.up{protocol="ping"}` (1 for successful ping, 0 for no response)
* `metricshub.host.up.response_time{protocol="ping"}` (response time in seconds)

  > Note: In Prometheus, these metrics will be renamed `metricshub_host_up` and `metricshub_host_up_response_time_seconds` respectively, to align with Prometheus naming conventions.

In the example below, we ping 11 resources using the **ICMP protocol**. A timeout of 3 seconds is configured. The status (OK, KO) and response times are displayed in a Grafana Dashboard.

![MetricsHub - Pinging resources](../images/metricshub-ping-check-feature.png)

## Procedure

To configure the **Ping Check** feature: 

1. In the `config/metricshub.yaml` file, we configure the 11 resources as follows:

    ```yaml
        attributes:
          site: bay4

        resources:
          host-ping:
            attributes:
              host.name: [ euclide, ibm-v7k, carnap, dev-nvidia-01, babbage, morgan, toland, ibm-fs900, hmc-ds-1, hmc-ds-2, sup-fuji-01 ]
    ```

2. We configure the ICMP protocol as follows:

    ```yaml
            protocols:
              ping:
                timeout: 3  
    ```

Here is the complete YAML configuration to be added to `config/metricshub.yaml` to ping resources:

   ```yaml
        attributes:
          site: bay9

        resources:
          host-ping:
            attributes:
              host.name: [ euclide, ibm-v7k, carnap, dev-nvidia-01, babbage, morgan, toland, ibm-fs900, hmc-ds-1, hmc-ds-2, sup-fuji-01 ]
            protocols:
              ping:
                timeout:  3  
  ```
