metricshub-doc/src/site/markdown/configuration/send-telemetry.md, before:

keywords: prometheus, exporter
description: How to configure MetricsHub to send telemetry to an observability back-end.

# Sending Telemetry to Observability Platforms

<!-- MACRO{toc|fromDepth=1|toDepth=1|id=toc} -->

Like any application instrumented with OpenTelemetry, **MetricsHub** utilizes the OTLP protocol to transmit data. Although **MetricsHub Community** can directly send metrics to observability platforms that support OpenTelemetry natively, it is usually recommended in production environments to use an OpenTelemetry Collector to:

* Aggregate metrics across different sources.
* Serve as a proxy, particularly in firewall-secured areas.
* Manage error handling, including retries.

Bundled with OpenTelemetry Collector Contrib, **MetricsHub Enterprise** facilitates connections to over 30 different observability platforms.

## Configure the OTel Collector (Enterprise Edition)

As a regular *OpenTelemetry Collector*, **MetricsHub Enterprise** consists of:

* receivers
* processors
* exporters
* and several extensions.

This version of **MetricsHub Enterprise** leverages **version ${otelVersion}** of OpenTelemetry.

To configure the OpenTelemetry Collector of **MetricsHub Enterprise**, edit the `otel/otel-config.yaml` file.

> **Important**: We recommend using an editor supporting the [Schemastore](https://www.schemastore.org/json#editors) to edit **MetricsHub**'s configuration YAML files (Example: [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download) and [vscode.dev](https://vscode.dev), with [RedHat's YAML extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.vscode-yaml)).

### Receivers

#### OTLP gRPC

> **Warning**: Only update this section if you customized the [MetricsHub Agent settings](configure-monitoring.html#a-28optional-29-additional-settings).
The **MetricsHub Agent** pushes the collected data to the [`OTLP Receiver`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/receiver/otlpreceiver) via [gRPC](https://grpc.io/) on port **TCP/4317**.

The `OTLP Receiver` is configured by default with the self-signed certificate `security/otel.crt` and the private key `security/otel.key` to enable the TLS protocol. If you wish to set your own certificate file, configure the **MetricsHub Agent** with the correct [Trusted Certificates File](send-telemetry.html#trusted-certificates-file). Because the `OTLP Exporter` of the **MetricsHub Agent** performs hostname verification, you will also have to add the `localhost` entry (`DNS:localhost,IP:127.0.0.1`) to the `Subject Alternative Name (SAN)` extension of the new generated certificate.

Clients requests are authenticated with the [Basic Authenticator extension](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/extension/basicauthextension).

```yaml
  otlp:
    protocols:
      grpc:
        endpoint: localhost:4317
        tls:
          cert_file: ../security/otel.crt
          key_file: ../security/otel.key
        auth:
          authenticator: basicauth
```

#### OpenTelemetry Collector Internal Exporter for Prometheus

The *OpenTelemetry Collector*'s internal *Exporter for Prometheus* is an optional source of data. It provides information about the collector activity. It's referred to as `prometheus/internal` in the pipeline and leverages the [standard `prometheus` receiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/prometheusreceiver).

```yaml
  prometheus/internal:
    config:
      scrape_configs:
        - job_name: otel-collector-internal
          scrape_interval: 60s
          static_configs:
            - targets: [ localhost:8888 ]
```

Under the `service:telemetry:metrics` section, you can set the metrics `level` or the `address` of the OpenTelemetry Collector Internal Exporter (by default: **localhost:8888**).

```yaml
service:
  telemetry:
    metrics:
      address: localhost:8888
      level: basic
```

### Processors

By default, the collected metrics go through 5 processors:

* [`memory_limiter`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/processor/memorylimiterprocessor) to limit the memory consumed by the *OpenTelemetry Collector* process (configurable)
* [`filter`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/filterprocessor) to include or exclude metrics
* [`batch`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/processor/batchprocessor) to process data in batches of 10 seconds (configurable).
* [`metricstransform`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/metricstransformprocessor) to enrich the collected metrics, typically with labels required by the observability platforms. The `metricstransform` processor has [many options to add, rename, delete labels and metrics](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/metricstransformprocessor).


### Exporters

The `exporters` section defines the destination of the collected metrics. **MetricsHub Enterprise** version **${enterpriseVersion}** includes support for all the [OpenTelemetry Collector Contrib exporters](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter), such as:

* [Prometheus Remote Write Exporter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/prometheusremotewriteexporter)
* [Datadog Exporter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/datadogexporter)
* [Debug Exporter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter/debugexporter)
* [New Relic (OTLP exporter)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter/otlpexporter)
* [Prometheus Exporter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/prometheusexporter)
* [Splunk SignalFx](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/signalfxexporter)
* and [many more...](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter)

You can configure several exporters in the same instance of the *OpenTelemetry Collector* to send the collected metrics to multiple platforms.

### Extensions

#### HealthCheck

The [healthcheck](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/extension/healthcheckextension) extension checks the status of **MetricsHub Enterprise** . It is activated by default and runs on port 13133 ([`http://localhost:13133`](http://localhost:13133)).

Refer to [Check the collector is up and running](../guides/status.html#check-the-collector-is-up-and-running) for more details.

#### zpages

The **zpages** extension provides debug information about all the different components. It notably provides:

* general information about **MetricsHub**
* details about the active pipeline
* activity details of each receiver and exporter configured in the pipeline.

Refer to [Check the pipelines status](../guides/status.html#check-the-pipelines-status) for more details.

#### Basic Authenticator

The [`Basic Authenticator`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/extension/basicauthextension) extension authenticates the `OTLP Exporter` requests by comparing the *Authorization* header sent by the `OTLP Exporter` and the credentials provided in the `security/.htpasswd` file.
Refer to the [Apache htpasswd](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/programs/htpasswd.html) documentation to know how to manage user files for basic authentication.

```yaml
  basicauth:
    htpasswd:
      file: ../security/.htpasswd
```

The `.htpasswd` file is stored in the `security` directory.

> **Warning**: If a different password is specified in the `.htpasswd` file, update the [Basic Authentication Header](configure-monitoring.html#enterprise-edition-authentication) of the **MetricsHub Agent**.

### The Pipeline

Configured extensions, receivers, processors and exporters are taken into account **if and only if** they are declared in the pipeline:

```yaml
service:
  telemetry:
    logs:
      level: info # Change to debug for more details
    metrics:
      address: localhost:8888
      level: basic
  extensions: [health_check, basicauth]
  pipelines:
    metrics:
      receivers: [otlp, prometheus/internal]
      processors: [memory_limiter, batch, metricstransform]
      exporters: [prometheusremotewrite/your-server] # List here the platform of your choice

    # Uncomment the section below to enable logging of hardware alerts.
    # logs:
    #   receivers: [otlp]
    #   processors: [memory_limiter, batch]
    #   exporters: [debug] # List here the platform of your choice
```

## Configure the OTLP Exporter (Community Edition)

By default, the **MetricsHub Agent** pushes the collected metrics to the [`OTLP Receiver`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/receiver/otlpreceiver) through gRPC on port **TCP/4317**. To push data to the OTLP receiver of your choice:

* locate the `otel` section in your configuration file
* configure the `otel.exporter.otlp.metrics.endpoint` parameter as follows:

```yaml
otel:
  otel.exporter.otlp.metrics.endpoint: https://<my-host>:4317

resourceGroups: #...
```

where `<my-host>` should be replaced with the hostname or IP address of the server where the OTLP receiver is installed.

Use the below syntax if you wish to push metrics to the Prometheus OTLP Receiver:

```yaml
otel:
  otel.exporter.otlp.metrics.endpoint: http://<prom-server-host>:9090/api/v1/otlp/v1/metrics
  otel.exporter.otlp.metrics.protocol: http/protobuf
```

where `<prom-server-host>` should be replaced with the hostname or IP address of the server where *Prometheus* is running.

> **Note:**
> For specific configuration details, refer to the [OpenTelemetry Auto-Configure documentation](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/languages/java/configuration/). This resource provides information about the properties to be configured depending on your deployment requirements.

#### Trusted certificates file

If an `OTLP Receiver` certificate is required, configure the `otel.exporter.otlp.metrics.certificate` parameter under the `otel` section:

```yaml
otel:
  otel.exporter.otlp.metrics.certificate: /opt/metricshub/security/new-server-cert.crt

resourceGroups: # ...
```

The file should contain one or more X.509 certificates in PEM format.

Commit message:

Issue #339: Reviewed the user doc
* configure-monitoring.md:
   * Refined the OTEL Exporter Settings
   * Fixed rendering issue for the table (now a two-column table)
* send-telemetry.md: added a note mentionning additional properties and pointing to configure-monitoring.md#otlp-exporter-settings

metricshub-doc/src/site/markdown/configuration/send-telemetry.md, after:

keywords: prometheus, exporter
description: How to configure MetricsHub to send telemetry to an observability back-end.

# Sending Telemetry to Observability Platforms

<!-- MACRO{toc|fromDepth=1|toDepth=1|id=toc} -->

Like any application instrumented with OpenTelemetry, **MetricsHub** utilizes the OTLP protocol to transmit data. Although **MetricsHub Community** can directly send metrics to observability platforms that support OpenTelemetry natively, it is usually recommended in production environments to use an OpenTelemetry Collector to:

* Aggregate metrics across different sources.
* Serve as a proxy, particularly in firewall-secured areas.
* Manage error handling, including retries.

Bundled with OpenTelemetry Collector Contrib, **MetricsHub Enterprise** facilitates connections to over 30 different observability platforms.

## Configure the OTel Collector (Enterprise Edition)

As a regular *OpenTelemetry Collector*, **MetricsHub Enterprise** consists of:

* receivers
* processors
* exporters
* and several extensions.

This version of **MetricsHub Enterprise** leverages **version ${otelVersion}** of OpenTelemetry.

To configure the OpenTelemetry Collector of **MetricsHub Enterprise**, edit the `otel/otel-config.yaml` file.

> **Important**: We recommend using an editor supporting the [Schemastore](https://www.schemastore.org/json#editors) to edit **MetricsHub**'s configuration YAML files (Example: [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download) and [vscode.dev](https://vscode.dev), with [RedHat's YAML extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.vscode-yaml)).

### Receivers

#### OTLP gRPC

> **Warning**: Only update this section if you customized the [MetricsHub Agent settings](configure-monitoring.html#a-28optional-29-additional-settings).
The **MetricsHub Agent** pushes the collected data to the [`OTLP Receiver`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/receiver/otlpreceiver) via [gRPC](https://grpc.io/) on port **TCP/4317**.

The `OTLP Receiver` is configured by default with the self-signed certificate `security/otel.crt` and the private key `security/otel.key` to enable the TLS protocol. If you wish to set your own certificate file, configure the **MetricsHub Agent** with the correct [Trusted Certificates File](send-telemetry.html#trusted-certificates-file). Because the `OTLP Exporter` of the **MetricsHub Agent** performs hostname verification, you will also have to add the `localhost` entry (`DNS:localhost,IP:127.0.0.1`) to the `Subject Alternative Name (SAN)` extension of the new generated certificate.

Clients requests are authenticated with the [Basic Authenticator extension](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/extension/basicauthextension).

```yaml
  otlp:
    protocols:
      grpc:
        endpoint: localhost:4317
        tls:
          cert_file: ../security/otel.crt
          key_file: ../security/otel.key
        auth:
          authenticator: basicauth
```

#### OpenTelemetry Collector Internal Exporter for Prometheus

The *OpenTelemetry Collector*'s internal *Exporter for Prometheus* is an optional source of data. It provides information about the collector activity. It's referred to as `prometheus/internal` in the pipeline and leverages the [standard `prometheus` receiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/prometheusreceiver).

```yaml
  prometheus/internal:
    config:
      scrape_configs:
        - job_name: otel-collector-internal
          scrape_interval: 60s
          static_configs:
            - targets: [ localhost:8888 ]
```

Under the `service:telemetry:metrics` section, you can set the metrics `level` or the `address` of the OpenTelemetry Collector Internal Exporter (by default: **localhost:8888**).

```yaml
service:
  telemetry:
    metrics:
      address: localhost:8888
      level: basic
```

### Processors

By default, the collected metrics go through 5 processors:

* [`memory_limiter`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/processor/memorylimiterprocessor) to limit the memory consumed by the *OpenTelemetry Collector* process (configurable)
* [`filter`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/filterprocessor) to include or exclude metrics
* [`batch`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/processor/batchprocessor) to process data in batches of 10 seconds (configurable).
* [`metricstransform`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/metricstransformprocessor) to enrich the collected metrics, typically with labels required by the observability platforms. The `metricstransform` processor has [many options to add, rename, delete labels and metrics](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/metricstransformprocessor).


### Exporters

The `exporters` section defines the destination of the collected metrics. **MetricsHub Enterprise** version **${enterpriseVersion}** includes support for all the [OpenTelemetry Collector Contrib exporters](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter), such as:

* [Prometheus Remote Write Exporter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/prometheusremotewriteexporter)
* [Datadog Exporter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/datadogexporter)
* [Debug Exporter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter/debugexporter)
* [New Relic (OTLP exporter)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter/otlpexporter)
* [Prometheus Exporter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/prometheusexporter)
* [Splunk SignalFx](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/signalfxexporter)
* and [many more...](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter)

You can configure several exporters in the same instance of the *OpenTelemetry Collector* to send the collected metrics to multiple platforms.

### Extensions

#### HealthCheck

The [healthcheck](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/extension/healthcheckextension) extension checks the status of **MetricsHub Enterprise** . It is activated by default and runs on port 13133 ([`http://localhost:13133`](http://localhost:13133)).

Refer to [Check the collector is up and running](../guides/status.html#check-the-collector-is-up-and-running) for more details.

#### zpages

The **zpages** extension provides debug information about all the different components. It notably provides:

* general information about **MetricsHub**
* details about the active pipeline
* activity details of each receiver and exporter configured in the pipeline.

Refer to [Check the pipelines status](../guides/status.html#check-the-pipelines-status) for more details.

#### Basic Authenticator

The [`Basic Authenticator`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/extension/basicauthextension) extension authenticates the `OTLP Exporter` requests by comparing the *Authorization* header sent by the `OTLP Exporter` and the credentials provided in the `security/.htpasswd` file.
Refer to the [Apache htpasswd](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/programs/htpasswd.html) documentation to know how to manage user files for basic authentication.

```yaml
  basicauth:
    htpasswd:
      file: ../security/.htpasswd
```

The `.htpasswd` file is stored in the `security` directory.

> **Warning**: If a different password is specified in the `.htpasswd` file, update the [Basic Authentication Header](configure-monitoring.html#enterprise-edition-authentication) of the **MetricsHub Agent**.

### The Pipeline

Configured extensions, receivers, processors and exporters are taken into account **if and only if** they are declared in the pipeline:

```yaml
service:
  telemetry:
    logs:
      level: info # Change to debug for more details
    metrics:
      address: localhost:8888
      level: basic
  extensions: [health_check, basicauth]
  pipelines:
    metrics:
      receivers: [otlp, prometheus/internal]
      processors: [memory_limiter, batch, metricstransform]
      exporters: [prometheusremotewrite/your-server] # List here the platform of your choice

    # Uncomment the section below to enable logging of hardware alerts.
    # logs:
    #   receivers: [otlp]
    #   processors: [memory_limiter, batch]
    #   exporters: [debug] # List here the platform of your choice
```

## Configure the OTLP Exporter (Community Edition)

By default, the **MetricsHub Agent** pushes the collected metrics to the [`OTLP Receiver`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/receiver/otlpreceiver) through gRPC on port **TCP/4317**. To push data to the OTLP receiver of your choice:

* locate the `otel` section in your configuration file
* configure the `otel.exporter.otlp.metrics.endpoint` parameter as follows:

```yaml
otel:
  otel.exporter.otlp.metrics.endpoint: https://<my-host>:4317

resourceGroups: #...
```

where `<my-host>` should be replaced with the hostname or IP address of the server where the OTLP receiver is installed.

> Additional properties are available, refer to [OTLP Exporter settings](configure-monitoring.md#otlp-exporter-settings) for details.

Use the below syntax if you wish to push metrics to the Prometheus OTLP Receiver:

```yaml
otel:
  otel.exporter.otlp.metrics.endpoint: http://<prom-server-host>:9090/api/v1/otlp/v1/metrics
  otel.exporter.otlp.metrics.protocol: http/protobuf
```

where `<prom-server-host>` should be replaced with the hostname or IP address of the server where *Prometheus* is running.

> **Note:**
> For specific configuration details, refer to the [OpenTelemetry Auto-Configure documentation](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/languages/java/configuration/). This resource provides information about the properties to be configured depending on your deployment requirements.

#### Trusted certificates file

If an `OTLP Receiver` certificate is required, configure the `otel.exporter.otlp.metrics.certificate` parameter under the `otel` section:

```yaml
otel:
  otel.exporter.otlp.metrics.certificate: /opt/metricshub/security/new-server-cert.crt

resourceGroups: # ...
```

The file should contain one or more X.509 certificates in PEM format.
